//From Minimal SCH

RP2040 to Crystal 
8.5mm outer pad to edge 

Rp2040 to USB
21.5mm outer pad to outer pad

edge to edge track spacing (minimum)
.25mm 

//

TODO 

JLC - find compatible stuff 
JLC - import c numbers in kicad 
JLC - try JLC autoscript 

X THROUGH HOLE USB BOOT THING

pcb updated footprints 
bat432 (or the other diode, can't remember)


x realign top header
(move and then drag wires to holes)
- get rid of unnecesary through hole pins 

x make power lines thicker (and deal with shit) 
x input special rules for jlc tolerances 

move Right Collum leds over to the left a bit

// QUESTIONS

check for raspberry pi input protection so as not to cancel out internal rp2040 protection 

c21 and c22 - .1uf - correct? = 100nf? 

why is 1k on the list twice 

MAKE SURE
I understand how stacking works and that the battery clip, and eurorack power will be going through hole on the back of the 2nd board, and will be correctly aligned

DRC CONNECTION ERRORS 

why am I getting ground and +3v3 connection errors? 

does that imply that some ground connections are connected to each other in a clump but don't ever reach the copper fill ground plane? I should be able to check this by looking back at stuff myself

DRC ERROR
trace length out of range on some vias 

whats up with weird unconeccted items including ground to ground etc.

TRACE WIDTHS

double check but seems no
do the 12v/8v traces need to be larger than the 3v ones? like is that more of a concern? 

NOTE THIS
(how internal, ie are they just talking ab their module)
There are internal 10K pull-ups on the PCF8523 on SDA and SCL to the VCC voltage

does the rtc need to be closer to rpi? shorter traces etc? 

which pins do I need to use for the i2c on rpi
should be good - im on GP16 and GP17 which are an i2c0 pair
BUT CLOCK AND DATA SHOULD BE SWITCHED
GP16 should be data (27) and GP17 should be clock (28)

add more decoupling caps like it mentions in user manual? double check adafruit breakout schematic/board itself to see what theyve used (if it works testing with the pico then should be good enough)

how to export for jlc? 

//PARTS 

cap footprints ok for reistors in this case?

//FACEPLATE

adding hole? edge cuts layer? 
